5000-S8 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
Schedule 8 
 
T1-2012 
 
CPP Contributions on Self-Employment and Other Earnings 
 
For more information, see line 222 in the guide. 
 
Complete this schedule to determine the amount of your Canada Pension Plan 
(CPP) contributions if: 
 
- you reported self-employment income on lines 135 to 143 of your return; 
 
- you reported business or professional income from a partnership on line 122  
of your return; or 
 
- you made an election on Form CPT20 to pay additional CPP contributions on 
other earnings. 
 
Attach a copy of this schedule to your return. 
 
Line 1: Pensionable net self-employment earnings (amounts from line 122 and 
lines 135 to 143 of your return) ^
 
Line 2 and line 373: Employment earnings not shown on a T4 slip on which you 
elect to pay additional CPP contributions (attach Form CPT20) ^
 
Line 3: Add lines 1 and 2 (if negative, enter "0"). = ^
 
Line 4: Enter the amount from box 26 (or if blank, box 14) of all T4 slips 
(this amount already includes the amount entered on line 11 of Form CPT20, if 
it applies). ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 3 and 4. Total pensionable earnings (maximum $50,100) = ^
 
Line 6: Basic exemption 3,500.00 
 
Line 7: Line 5 minus line 6 (if negative, enter "0") Earnings subject to 
contribution = ^
 
Line 8: Multiply the amount on line 7 by 9.9%. ^
 
Line 9: Contributions through employment (from box 16 and box 17 of all T4 
slips) ^
multiplied by 2 = ^
 
CPP contributions payable on self-employment and other earnings: 
Line 10: Line 8 minus line 9 (if negative, enter "0"). Enter this amount on 
line 421 of your return. = ^ 
 
Deduction and tax credit for CPP contributions on self-employment and other 
earnings: 
Line 11: Amount from line 10 ^
multiplied by 50% = ^
 
Enter the amount from line 11 on both line 222 of your return and line 310 of 
Schedule 1. 
 
Election to stop contributing to the Canada Pension Plan 
 
If, in 2012, you were 60 to 70 years of age, you received a CPP or QPP 
retirement benefit, and you had employment and/or self-employment income, you 
were considered a CPP working beneficiary and you were required to make CPP 
contributions. However, if you were at least 65 years of age but under 70, 
you can elect to stop paying CPP contributions. 
 
If you have employment income for 2012 (other than employment income earned 
in Quebec) and elected to stop paying CPP contributions, you should have 
already completed and submitted Form CPT30, Election to Stop Contributing to 
the Canada Pension Plan, or Revocation of a Prior Election, to us and your 
employer(s). 
 
If you had only self-employment income for 2012 (or had self-employment 
income and your only employment income was from Quebec), and elect to stop 
paying CPP contributions on your self-employment earnings, enter the month in 
2012 for which you choose to start this election at box 372 below. The date 
cannot be earlier than the month you turn 65. For example, if you turn 65 in 
June, you can choose any month between June and December, inclusively. If you 
choose the month of June, enter 06 at box 372, because June is the sixth 
month of the year. Your election remains valid until you revoke it or you 
turn 70. If you start receiving employment income (other than employment 
income earned in Quebec) in a future year, you will have to complete Form 
CPT30 in that year for your election to remain valid. 
 
If you had both employment income (other than employment income earned in 
Quebec) and self-employment income in 2012 and wanted to elect to stop paying 
CPP contributions, you must have completed Form CPT30 in 2012. An election 
filed using Form CPT30 applies to all income from pensionable earnings, 
including self-employment earnings, as of the first day of the month 
following the date you gave this form to your employer. However, if you want 
to elect to stop paying CPP contributions on your self-employment earnings on 
an earlier date in 2012, enter the month you want to stop contributing in box 
372 below. 
 
To be valid, an election that begins in 2012 must be filed on or before June 
15, 2014. 
 
I elect to stop contributing to the Canada Pension Plan on my self-employment 
earnings on the first day of the month that I entered at box 372. 
 
Box 372: Month ^
 
Privacy Act, Personal Information Bank number CRA PPU 005
