5000-S7 (Page 1 of 3) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2018 
 
Schedule 7 
 
RRSP and PRPP Unused Contributions, Transfers, and HBP or LLP Activities 
 
For more information, see Guide T4040, RRSPs and Other Registered Plans for 
Retirement. 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return only when one or more of 
the following situations apply: 
 
Complete Parts A, B, C, and D, if any of the following apply: 
 
- you will not be deducting on your 2018 return all of your unused RRSP, 
PRPP, or SPP contributions previously reported and available to deduct for 
2018, as shown on your latest notice of assessment or reassessment, or T1028, 
Your RRSP Information for 2018 
 
- you will not be deducting on your 2018 return all of the RRSP, PRPP, and 
SPP contributions you made from March 2, 2018 to March 1, 2019 
 
- you have transferred to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP certain amounts you 
included in your income for 2018 
 
- you are designating contributions made to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP as a 2018 
repayment under the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) or the Lifelong Learning Plan 
(LLP) 
 
- you intend to claim on line 208 of your return the full amount of RRSP, 
PRPP, and SPP contributions made by you, including any unused RRSP, PRPP, or 
SPP contributions, and you reported employer PRPP contributions on line 205 
of your return 
 
Complete Part E, if: 
 
- you withdrew funds from your RRSP in 2018 under the HBP or the LLP 
 
Complete Part F, if: 
 
- you will be the beneficiary of income that was contributed to an amateur 
athlete trust in 2018 and you want that income to be used in calculating your 
RRSP deduction limit 
 
If none of the above situations apply to you, do not complete this schedule. 
Enter on line 208 of your return your total contributions for the year made 
to your RRSP, SPP, or PRPP, or your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP or 
SPP. 
 
Part A - Contributions 
 
Complete this part to calculate your total contributions. 
 
Line 1: Enter your unused RRSP/PRPP contributions previously reported and 
available to deduct for 2018 as shown on your latest notice of assessment or 
reassessment, or on your T1028 statement for 2018. ^
 
Line 2: Enter the RRSP, SPP, and your PRPP contributions you made from March 
2, 2018, to December 31, 2018 (attach all receipts). ^
 
Line 3: Enter the RRSP, SPP, and your PRPP contributions you made from 
January 1, 2019, to March 1, 2019 (attach all receipts). ^
 
Line 4 and line 245: Add lines 2 and 3. = ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 and 4. Enter this amount on line 6 on the next page. 
Total contributions = ^
 
Enter on lines 2 and 3 above all contributions you made for the dates 
specified, even if you are not designating or deducting them on your return 
for 2018. Otherwise, the CRA may reduce or disallow your claim for these 
contributions on your return for a future year. 
 
Include on lines 2 and 3: 
 
- contributions you made to your RRSP, SPP, or PRPP, or to your spouse's or 
common-law partner's RRSP or SPP 
 
- amounts transferred to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP (also see line 14 in Part C 
of this schedule) 
 
- contributions that you are designating as a repayment under the HBP or the 
LLP (Part B of this schedule) 
 
Do not include on lines 2 and 3: 
 
- any unused RRSP, PRPP or SPP contributions you made after March 1, 2018, 
refunded to you or your spouse or common-law partner in 2018 
 
- part or all of the contributions you made to your RRSP or an RRSP for your 
spouse or common-law partner less than 90 days before either of you withdrew 
funds from that RRSP under the HBP or the LLP. For more information, go to 
canada.ca/home-buyers-plan or see Guide RC4112, Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP) 
 
- your employer's contributions to your PRPP as reported on line 205 of your 
return 
 
- any payment directly transferred to your RRSP, PRPP or SPP if you did not 
receive an information slip for it, or if it is shown in box 35 of your T4RSP 
or T4RIF slips 
 
- the part of an RRSP withdrawal you recontributed to your RRSP and deducted 
on line 232 of your return. This would have happened if, in error, you 
withdrew more RRSP funds than necessary to obtain past service benefits under 
a registered pension plan (RPP) 
 
- the excess part of a direct transfer of a lump sum payment from your RPP to 
an RRSP, a PRPP or a registered retirement income fund (RRIF) you withdrew 
and are including on line 129 or 130 and deducting on line 232 of your return 
for 2018 
 
- contributions made from exempt earnings. See Form RC383, Tax-Exempt Earned 
Income and Contributions for a Pooled Registered Pension Plan 
 
Continue on the next page 
 
 
5000-S7 (Page 2 of 3) 
 
Part B - Repayments under the HBP and the LLP 
 
If you withdrew funds from your RRSP under the HBP and/or the LLP before 2017 
you may have to make a repayment to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP for 2018. Your 
2018 minimum required repayment is shown on your latest notice of assessment 
or reassessment or your T1028 statement for 2018. 
 
Complete line 7 and/or line 8 if you are designating contributions made from 
January 1, 2018 to March 1, 2019 to your own RRSP, PRPP, or SPP as a 2018 
repayment under the HBP or the LLP. If you designate less than the minimum 
required amount for 2018, report the difference on line 129 of your return. 
 
If you are not required to make a repayment under the HBP or the LLP, enter 
"0" on line 9 and continue at line 10. 
 
Do not include on lines 7 and 8: 
 
- any amount you deducted or designated on your 2017 return as a repayment or 
that was refunded to you 
 
- any contributions or transfers that you will be including on line 14 or 
line 15 in Part C of this schedule 
 
Line 6: Enter the amount from line 5 on the previous page. ^
 
Line 7 and line 246: Contribution designated as a repayment under the HBP ^
 
Line 8 and line 262: Contribution designated as a repayment under the LLP ^
 
Line 9: Add lines 7 and 8. Total repayments under the HBP and the LLP = ^
 
Line 10: Line 6 minus line 9 Contributions available to deduct = ^
 
For more information on the LLP, see Guide RC4112, or on the HBP go to 
canada.ca/home-buyers-plan. 
 
Part C - RRSP/PRPP deduction 
 
Complete this part to calculate your RRSP/PRPP deduction at line 208 of your 
return. 
 
Line 11: Enter your RRSP/PRPP deduction limit for 2018 as shown on your 
latest notice of assessment or reassessment, or your T1028 statement for 
2018. ^
 
Line 12: Enter your 2018 employer PRPP contributions (amount from line 205 of 
your return). ^
 
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 = ^
 
Line 14 and line 240: Transfers (see "Line 14 - Transfers" below) ^
 
Line 15: RRSP, PRPP, and SPP contributions you are deducting for 2018. This 
amount cannot be more than the lesser of: the amount on line 13 and the 
result of line 10 minus line 14. ^
 
Line 16: Add lines 14 and 15. = ^
 
Line 17 and line 208: Enter the amount from line 10 or line 16, whichever is 
less. RRSP/PRPP deduction ^
Also enter this amount on line 208 of your return. 
 
Line 14 - Transfers 
 
You may have reported income on line 115, 129, or 130 of your 2018 return. If 
you transferred certain types of this income to your RRSP, PRPP, and SPP on 
or before March 1, 2019, you can claim the corresponding amount on line 14, 
as a transfer. This ensures that the transferred amount does not reduce your 
RRSP/PRPP deduction limit. 
 
For more information about amounts you can transfer, see Guide T4040. 
 
Note 
You may not have reported income you received in a previous year on your 
return for that year. If reported, that income may have provided you with 
additional room for which you could contribute to an RRSP, PRPP, or SPP in 
subsequent years. To ensure your RRSP deduction limit is up to date and 
maximized, file your return for that year and report the income. 
 
Part D - Unused contributions available to carry forward 
 
Line 18: Line 10 minus line 17 Your unused contributions available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
This amount is available to carry forward to future years and it will be 
shown on your 2018 notice of assessment. 
 
Continue on the next page 
 
 
5000-S7 (Page 3 of 3) 
 
Part E - 2018 withdrawals under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Complete this section, if you withdrew funds from your RRSP under the HBP 
and/or the LLP in 2018. 
 
Line 19 and line 247: HBP: enter the amount from box 27 of all your 2018 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 20 and box 259: Tick this box if the address shown on page 1 of your 
return is the same as the address of the home you purchased under the HBP. 
259 ^
 
Line 21 and line 263: LLP: enter the amount from box 25 of all your 2018 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 22 and box 264: Tick this box to designate your spouse or common-law 
partner as the student for whom the funds were withdrawn under the LLP. You 
can only make this designation on the return for the year you make your first 
withdrawal under the LLP. If you do not tick the box, you will be considered 
to be the student for LLP purposes. ^
 
For more information on the LLP, see Guide RC4112, Lifelong Learning Plan 
(LLP), or on the HBP go to canada.ca/home-buyers-plan. 
 
Part F - 2018 contributions to an amateur athlete trust 
 
Complete this section to report qualifying performance income (generally 
endorsement income, prize money, or income from public appearances received 
by an amateur athlete) contributed in 2018 to an amateur athlete trust, since 
this income qualifies as earned income in calculating the RRSP deduction 
limit of the trust's beneficiary. 
 
Line 23 and line 267: Enter the amount of income that was contributed to an 
amateur athlete trust in 2018. ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
