5000-S11 (Front) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2020 
 
Schedule 11 
 
Federal Tuition, Education, and Textbook Amounts and Canada Training Credit 
 
Only the student completes this schedule and attaches it to their return. If 
the student is transferring an unused amount from this year, the designated 
individual should not attach this schedule to their return. 
 
In addition to your tuition, education, and textbook amounts and your Canada 
training credit, this schedule will help you calculate the tuition amount you 
can transfer to a designated individual and the unused amount, if any, you 
can carry forward to a future year. 
 
Use your completed designated forms (T2202, TL11A, and/or TL11C) or other 
official tuition tax receipts to complete this schedule. To qualify for an 
amount on line 32000 and/or line 32001, the fees you paid to attend each 
institution must be more than $100. 
 
For more information, see Guide P105, Students and Income Tax. 
 
Tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed by the student for 2020 
 
Line 1: Unused federal tuition, education, and textbook amounts from your 
2019 notice of assessment or reassessment ^
 
Line 2 and line 32000: Eligible tuition fees paid to Canadian educational 
institutions for 2020 ^
 
If you choose to claim the Canada Training Credit, continue on line 3. 
Otherwise, enter the amount from line 2 on line 6, and continue on line 7. 
 
Canada training credit 
 
Line 3: Amount from line 2 ^
multiplied by 50% = ^
 
Line 4: Your Canada training credit limit for 2020 (from your latest notice 
of assessment or reassessment for 2019) ^
 
Canada training credit for 2020 
 
Line 5: Enter an amount up to the lesser of the amounts at line 3 or line 4. 
Enter this amount on line 45350 of your return. ^
 
Line 6: Line 2 minus line 5 Available Canadian tuition amount for 2020 = ^
 
Line 7 and line 32001: Eligible tuition fees paid to foreign educational 
institutions for 2020 ^
 
Line 8: Line 6 plus line 7 = ^
 
Line 9: Line 1 plus line 8 Total available tuition, education, and textbook 
amounts for 2020 = ^
 
Line 10: Enter the amount of your taxable income from line 26000 of your 
return on line 10 if it is $48,535 or less. Otherwise, enter the result of 
the following calculation: amount from line 70 of your return ^
divided by 15% = ^
 
Line 11: Total of lines 79 to 93 of your return ^
 
Line 12: Line 10 minus line 11 (if negative, enter "0") = ^
 
Line 13: Unused tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed for 2020 
Amount from line 1 or line 12, whichever is less ^
 
Line 14: Line 12 minus line 13 = ^
 
Line 15: 2020 tuition amount you are claiming for 2020 Enter the amount from 
line 8 or line 14, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 16: Line 13 plus line 15. Enter this amount on line 32300 of your 
return. Total tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed by the student 
for 2020 = ^
 
Continue on the next page. 
 
 
5000-S11 (Back) 
 
2020 enrolment information 
 
The CRA needs the following information to administer federal programs such 
as the Canada workers benefit, scholarship exemption, lifelong learning plan, 
and various provincial and territorial programs. 
 
Box 32005: Tick this box if you were eligible for the disability tax credit 
or you had, in the year, a mental or physical impairment and a doctor has 
certified that you cannot reasonably be expected to be enrolled as a full-
time student because of the effects of your impairment. ^
 
Box 32010: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a part-time 
student from box 24 of Form T2202, and column B of forms TL11A and TL11C. 
(maximum 12) ^
 
Box 32020: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a full-time 
student from box 25 of Form T2202, and column C of forms TL11A and TL11C. 
(maximum 12) ^
 
Transfer or carryforward of unused amount 
 
Complete this section if you are transferring a current-year amount or if you 
have an unused amount to carry forward to future years. 
 
Line 17: Amount from line 9 of the previous page ^
 
Line 18: Amount from line 16 of the previous page ^
 
Line 19: Line 17 minus line 18 Total unused amount = ^
 
If you are transferring an amount to a designated individual, continue on 
line 20. Otherwise, enter the amount from line 19 on line 24. 
 
Line 20: Amount from line 8 of the previous page (maximum $5,000) ^
 
Line 21: Amount from line 15 of the previous page ^
 
Line 22: Line 20 minus line 21 (if negative, enter "0") Maximum transferable 
= ^
 
You can transfer all or part of the amount on line 22 to your spouse or 
common-law partner, to their parent or grandparent, or to your parent or 
grandparent. To do this, you have to designate the individual and specify the 
federal amount that you are transferring to them on your Form T2202, TL11A, 
or TL11C. Enter the amount on line 23 below. 
 
Note: 
If your spouse or common-law partner is claiming an amount for you on line 
30300 or line 32600 of their return, you cannot transfer an amount to your 
parent or grandparent or to your spouse's or common-law partner's parent or 
grandparent. 
 
Line 23 and line 32700: Enter the amount you are transferring (cannot be more 
than line 22). Federal tuition amount transferred ^
 
Line 24: Line 19 minus line 23 Unused federal amount available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
Complete the provincial or territorial Schedule (S11) to calculate your 
provincial or territorial amounts. 
 
See the privacy notice on your return.

 




