5010-S11 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
2020 
 
Schedule BC(S11) 
 
British Columbia Tuition and Education Amounts 
 
Only the student completes this schedule and attaches it to their return. 
 
Complete this schedule using your designated forms (T2202, TL11A, TL11C) or 
other official tuition tax receipts. 
 
If you are transferring an amount, use forms T2202, TL11A, and/or TL11C to 
designate the individual you are transferring to and specify the provincial 
amount you are transferring. 
 
For more information, see the British Columbia Information Guide and Guide 
P105, Students and Income Tax. 
 
British Columbia tuition and education amounts claimed for 2020 
 
If you resided in a province or territory other than British Columbia on 
December 31, 2019, enter your unused federal tuition, education, and textbook 
amounts from your 2019 notice of assessment or reassessment on line 1. 
 
Line 1: Unused tuition and education amounts: Enter your unused amounts from 
your 2019 notice of assessment or reassessment. ^
 
Line 2 and line 59140: Enter the amount from line 8 of your federal Schedule 
11. ^
 
Line 3: Line 1 plus line 2 Total available tuition and education amounts = ^
 
Line 4: Enter the amount from line 26000 of your return on line 4 if it is 
$41,725 or less. If it is more than $41,725, enter the result of the 
following calculation: amount from line 8 of your Form BC428 ^
divided by 5.06% = ^
 
Line 5: Enter the amount from line 33 of your Form BC428. ^
 
Line 6: Line 4 minus line 5 (if negative, enter "0") = ^
 
Line 7: Unused tuition and education amounts claimed for 2020: Enter 
whichever is less: amount from line 1 or line 6 ^
 
Line 8: Line 6 minus line 7 = ^
 
Line 9: 2020 tuition amount claimed for 2020: Enter whichever is less: amount 
from line 2 or line 8 ^
 
Line 10: Line 7 plus line 9 Your British Columbia tuition and education 
amounts claimed for 2020 = ^
 
Enter the amount from line 10 on line 58560 of your Form BC428. 
 
Transfer or carryforward of unused amounts 
 
Complete this section to transfer a current-year amount or carry forward your 
unused amounts to a future year. 
 
Line 11: Amount from line 3 above ^
 
Line 12: Amount from line 10 above ^
 
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 Total unused amount = ^
 
If you are transferring an amount to a designated individual, continue on 
line 14. If not, enter the amount from line 13 on line 18. 
 
Line 14: Amount from line 2 above (maximum $5,000) ^
 
Line 15: Amount from line 9 above ^
 
Line 16: Line 14 minus line 15 (if negative, enter "0") Maximum transferable 
= ^
 
Note: 
If your spouse or common-law partner is claiming an amount for you on line 
58120 or line 58640 of their Form BC428, you cannot transfer your unused 
current-year amount to your (or your spouse's or common-law partner's) parent 
or grandparent. 
 
Line 17 and line 59200: Enter the provincial amount you are transferring as 
specified on your designated forms (cannot be more than line 16). Provincial 
amount transferred ^
 
Line 18: Line 13 minus line 17 Unused provincial amount available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.

 




