5000-S11 (Front) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2019 
 
Schedule 11 
 
Federal Tuition, Education, and Textbook Amounts 
 
Only the student must complete this schedule and attach it to their return. 
If the student is transferring an amount to another person, the other person 
should not attach this schedule to their return. 
 
If you are a student, complete this schedule to determine: 
 
- your tuition, education, and textbook amounts 
- the tuition amount you can transfer to a designated individual 
- the unused amount, if any, you can carry forward to a future year 
 
Use your completed designated forms (T2202, TL11A, and/or TL11C) or other 
official tuition tax receipts to complete this schedule. 
 
For more information, see Guide P105, Students and Income Tax. 
 
Tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed by the student for 2019 
 
Line 1: Unused federal tuition, education, and textbook amounts from your 
2018 notice of assessment or notice of reassessment ^
 
Line 2 and line 32000: Eligible tuition fees paid to Canadian educational 
institutions for 2019 from the forms noted above or your official tuition tax 
receipts. To qualify, the fees you paid to attend each institution must be 
more than $100. Also complete the 2019 enrolment information below. ^
 
Line 3 and line 32001: Eligible tuition fees paid to foreign educational 
institutions for 2019 from the forms noted above or your official tuition tax 
receipts. To qualify, the fees you paid to attend each institution must be 
more than $100. Also complete the 2019 enrolment information below. ^
 
Line 4: Add lines 1, 2, and 3. Total available tuition, education, and 
textbook amounts for 2019 = ^
 
Line 5: Enter the amount of your taxable income from line 26000 of your 
return if it is $47,630 or less. Otherwise, complete Part B in Step 5 of your 
return and enter the result of the following calculation: amount from line 43 
in Part C of your return divided by 15%. ^
 
Line 6: Total of lines 1 to 20 in Step 5 of your return ^
 
Line 7: Line 5 minus line 6 (if negative, enter "0") = ^
 
Line 8: Unused tuition, education, and textbook amounts you are claiming for 
2019. Amount from line 1 or line 7, whichever is less ^
 
Line 9: Line 7 minus line 8 = ^
 
Line 10: 2019 tuition amount you are claiming for 2019 Enter the amount of 
line 2 plus line 3, or the amount from line 9, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 11: Add lines 8 and 10. Enter this amount on line 32300 of your return. 
Total tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed by the student for 
2019 = ^
 
2019 enrolment information 
 
The CRA needs the following information to administer federal programs, such 
as the Canada workers benefit, scholarship exemption, lifelong learning plan, 
and various provincial and territorial programs. 
 
Box 32005: Tick this box if you were eligible for the disability tax credit 
or you had, in the year, a mental or physical impairment and a doctor has 
certified that you cannot reasonably be expected to be enrolled as a full-
time student because of the effects of your impairment. ^
 
Box 32010: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a part-time 
student from box 24 of Form T2202, or column B of forms TL11A and TL11C. 
(maximum 12) ^
 
Box 32020: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a full-time 
student from box 25 of Form T2202, or column C of forms TL11A and TL11C. 
(maximum 12) ^
 
Continue on the next page. 
 
 
5000-S11 (Back) 
 
Transfer or carryforward of unused amount 
 
Complete this section if you are transferring a current-year amount or if you 
have an unused amount to carry forward to future years. 
 
Line 12: Amount from line 4 from the previous page ^
 
Line 13: Amount from line 11 from the previous page ^
 
Line 14: Line 12 minus line 13 Total unused amount = ^
 
If you are transferring an amount to another individual, continue on line 15. 
Otherwise, enter the amount from line 14 on line 19. 
 
Line 15: Enter the amount of line 2 plus line 3 from the previous page. 
(maximum $5,000) ^
 
Line 16: Amount from line 10 from the previous page ^
 
Line 17: Line 15 minus line 16 (if negative, enter "0") Maximum transferable 
= ^
 
You can transfer all or part of the amount on line 17 to your spouse or 
common-law partner, to their parent or grandparent, or to your parent or 
grandparent. To do this, you have to designate the individual and specify the 
federal amount that you are transferring to them on your Form T2202, TL11A, 
or TL11C. Enter the amount on line 18 below. 
 
Note: 
If your spouse or common-law partner is claiming an amount for you on line 
30300 or line 32600 of their return, you cannot transfer an amount to your 
parent or grandparent or to your spouse's or common-law partner's parent or 
grandparent. 
 
Line 18 and line 32700: Enter the amount you are transferring (cannot be more 
than line 17). Federal tuition amount transferred ^
 
Line 19: Line 14 minus line 18 Unused federal amount available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
Complete the provincial or territorial Schedule (S11) to calculate your 
provincial or territorial amounts. 
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
