5010-S2 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
2019 
 
Schedule BC(S2) 
 
Provincial Amounts Transferred From Your Spouse or Common-Law Partner 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return to claim a transfer of 
the unused part of your spouse's or common-law partner's amounts shown below. 
 
You can claim these amounts if you are eligible to claim the equivalent 
federal amounts on your federal Schedule 2. 
 
If your spouse or common-law partner is filing a return, use the amounts that 
they entered on their Form BC428. 
 
If your spouse or common-law partner is not filing a return, use the amounts 
they would enter on their Form BC428 as if they were filing a return and 
attach their information slips. 
 
If your spouse or common-law partner was not a resident of British Columbia 
at the end of the year, special rules may apply. For more information, call 
the Canada Revenue Agency at 1-800-959-8281. 
 
Line 1 and Line 59020: Age amount (if your spouse or common-law partner was 
65 years of age or older in 2019): If their net income is $35,660 or less, 
enter $4,791. If not, enter the amount from line 58080 of their Form BC428. ^
 
Line 2 and Line 59050: Pension income amount: Enter the amount from line 
58360 of their Form BC428. (maximum $1,000) ^
 
Line 3 and Line 59070: Disability amount: Enter the amount from line 58440 of 
their Form BC428. ^
 
Line 4 and Line 59090:Tuition amounts: Enter the provincial amount designated 
to you from their Form T2202, TL11A, or TL11C. ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 to 4. = ^
 
Line 6: Spouse's or common-law partner's taxable income: Enter the amount 
from line 26000 of their return if it is $40,707 or less. If the amount is 
more than $40,707, enter the result of the following calculation: amount from 
line 49 of their Form BC428 divided by 5.06%. ^
 
Line 7: Enter the total of lines 58040, 58240, 58280, 58300, 58305, 58315, 
58316, and 58330 of their Form BC428 plus line 10 of their Schedule BC(S11). 
^
 
Line 8 and Line 59120: Spouse's or common-law partner's adjusted taxable 
income: Line 6 minus line 7 (if negative, enter "0") = ^
 
Line 9: Line 5 minus line 8 (if negative, enter "0") Enter this amount on 
line 58640 of your Form BC428. Provincial amounts transferred from your 
spouse or common-law partner = ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
