5000-S2 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2019 
 
Schedule 2 
 
Federal Amounts Transferred From Your Spouse or Common-Law Partner 
 
You may be able to claim all or part of certain amounts for which your spouse 
or common law partner qualifies if they did not need the whole amount to 
reduce their federal tax to zero. 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return to claim a transfer of 
the unused part of your spouse's or common-law partner's amounts as shown 
below. 
 
If you were separated because of a breakdown in your relationship for a 
period of 90 days or more including December 31, 2019, your spouse or common-
law partner cannot transfer any unused amounts to you. 
 
If your spouse or common-law partner is filing a return, use the amounts that 
they entered on their return, schedules and worksheets. 
 
If your spouse or common-law partner is not filing a return, use the amounts 
that they would enter on their return, schedules and worksheets as if they 
were filing a return and attach their information slips. 
 
Line 1 and line 35200: Age amount (if your spouse or common-law partner was 
65 years of age or older in 2019): If their net income is $37,790 or less, 
enter $7,494. Otherwise, enter the amount from line 30100 of their return. ^
 
Line 2 and line 353000: Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 
years of age: Enter the amount from line 30500 of their return. ^
 
Line 3 and line 35500: Pension income amount: Enter the amount from line 
31400 of their return. (maximum $2,000) ^
 
Line 4 and line 35700: Disability amount: (see note 1 below) Enter the amount 
from line 31600 of their return. ^
 
Line 5 and line 36000: Tuition amount: (see note 2 below) Enter the federal 
amount designated to you as shown on their Form T2202, TL11A, or TL11C. ^
 
Line 6: Add lines 1 to 5. = ^
 
Line 7: Spouse's or common-law partner's taxable income: Enter the amount of 
their taxable income from line 26000 of their return if it is $47,630 or 
less. Otherwise, complete Part B of Step 5 of their return and enter the 
result of the following calculation: amount from line 43 in Part C of their 
return divided by 15%. ^
 
Line 8: Enter the total of lines 30000, 30800, 31000, 31200, 31217, 31220, 
31240, 31260, 31270, 31285, and 31300 of their return plus line 11 of their 
Schedule 11. ^
 
Line 9 and line 36100: Spouse's or common-law partner's adjusted taxable 
income: Line 7 minus line 8 (if negative, enter "0") = ^
 
Line 10: Line 6 minus line 9 (if negative, enter "0") Enter this amount on 
line 32600 of your return. Federal amounts transferred from your spouse or 
common-law partner ^
 
Note 1 
If the amount on this line includes a new claim for the disability amount, 
attach a completed and certified Form T2201, Disability Tax Credit 
Certificate. Before assessing your return, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) 
will review your claim to see if your spouse or common-law partner is 
eligible for the disability tax credit. If your spouse or common-law partner 
was eligible for 2018 and still meets the requirements in 2019, you can claim 
this amount without sending the CRA a new Form T2201. However, you must send 
the CRA a new one if the previous period of approval ended before 2019 or if 
the CRA asks you to do this. 
 
Note 2 
The maximum tuition amount your spouse or common-law partner can transfer to 
you is $5,000 minus the current year amounts they use, even if there is still 
an unused part. Your spouse or common-law partner cannot transfer to you any 
tuition, education, or textbook amounts carried forward from a previous year. 
 
Complete the provincial or territorial schedule (S2) to calculate your 
provincial or territorial amounts. 
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
