5000-S7 (Page 1 of 4) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2019 
 
Schedule 7 
 
RRSP and PRPP Unused Contributions, Transfers, and HBP or LLP Activities 
 
For more information, see Guide T4040, RRSPs and Other Registered Plans for 
Retirement. 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return when one or more of the 
following situations apply: 
 
Complete Parts A, B, C, and D if any of the following apply: 
 
- you will not be deducting on your 2019 return all of the unused RRSP, PRPP, 
or SPP contributions you previously reported and that are available to deduct 
for 2019, as shown on your latest notice of assessment or reassessment, or 
T1028, Your RRSP Information for 2019 
 
- you will not be deducting on your 2019 return all of the RRSP, PRPP, and 
SPP contributions you made from March 2, 2019, to March 2, 2020 
 
- you have transferred to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP certain amounts you 
included in your income for 2019 
 
- you are designating contributions made to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP as a 2019 
repayment under the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) or the Lifelong Learning Plan 
(LLP) 
 
- you intend to claim on line 20800 of your return the full amount of RRSP, 
PRPP, and SPP contributions you made, including any unused RRSP, PRPP, or SPP 
contributions, and you reported employer PRPP contributions on line 20810 of 
your return 
 
Complete Part E if: 
 
- you withdrew funds from your RRSP in 2019 under the HBP or the LLP 
 
Complete Part F if: 
 
- you will be the beneficiary of income that was contributed to an amateur 
athlete trust in 2019 and you want that income to be used in calculating your 
RRSP deduction limit 
 
If none of the above situations apply to you, do not complete this schedule. 
On line 20800 of your return, enter your total contributions for the year 
made to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP, or your spouse's or common-law partner's 
RRSP or SPP. 
 
 
5000-S7 (Page 2 of 4) 
 
Part A - Contributions 
 
Complete this part to calculate your total contributions. 
 
Line 1: Enter your unused RRSP contributions previously reported and 
available to deduct for 2019 as shown on your latest notice of assessment or 
reassessment, or on your T1028 statement for 2019 (unused RRSP contributions 
also includes your unused PRPP and SPP contributions.) ^
 
Line 2: Enter the RRSP, SPP, and your PRPP contributions you made from March 
2, 2019, to December 31, 2019 (attach all receipts). ^
 
Line 3: Enter the RRSP, SPP, and your PRPP contributions you made from 
January 1, 2020, to March 2, 2020 (attach all receipts). ^
 
Line 4 and line 24500: Add lines 2 and 3. = ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 and 4. Enter this amount on line 6 on the next page. 
Total contributions = ^
 
Enter on lines 2 and 3 above all contributions you made for the dates 
specified, even if you are not designating or deducting them on your return 
for 2019. Otherwise, the CRA may reduce or disallow your claim for these 
contributions on your return for a future year. 
 
Include on lines 2 and 3: 
 
- contributions you made to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP, or to your spouse's or 
common-law partner's RRSP or SPP 
 
- amounts transferred to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP (also see line 14 in Part C 
of this schedule) 
 
- contributions you are designating as a repayment under the HBP or the LLP 
(Part B of this schedule) 
 
Do not include on lines 2 and 3: 
 
- any unused RRSP, PRPP, or SPP contributions you made after March 1, 2019, 
that were refunded to you or your spouse or common-law partner in 2019 
 
- part or all of the contributions you made to your RRSP or an RRSP for your 
spouse or common-law partner less than 90 days before either of you withdrew 
funds from that RRSP under the HBP or the LLP. For more information, go to 
canada.ca/home-buyers-plan or see Guide RC4112, Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP) 
 
- your employer's contributions to your PRPP as reported on line 20810 of 
your return 
 
- any payment directly transferred to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP if you did not 
receive an information slip for it, or if it is shown in box 35 of your T4RSP 
or T4RIF slips 
 
- the part of an RRSP withdrawal you recontributed to your RRSP and deducted 
on line 23200 of your return. This would have happened if, in error, you 
withdrew more RRSP funds than necessary to get past service benefits under a 
registered pension plan (RPP) 
 
- the excess part of a direct transfer of a lump-sum payment from your RPP to 
an RRSP, a PRPP, or a registered retirement income fund (RRIF) that you 
withdrew and are including on line 12900 or 13000 and deducting on line 23200 
of your return for 2019 
 
- contributions made from exempt earnings. See Form RC383, Tax-Exempt Earned 
Income and Contributions for a Pooled Registered Pension Plan 
 
 
5000-S7 (Page 3 of 4) 
 
Part B - Repayments under the HBP and the LLP 
 
If you withdrew funds from your RRSP under the HBP or the LLP before 2018, 
you may have to make a repayment to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP for 2019. Your 
2019 minimum required repayment is shown on your latest notice of assessment 
or reassessment or your T1028 statement for 2019. 
 
Complete line 7 and line 8 if you are designating contributions made from 
January 1, 2019, to March 2, 2020, to your own RRSP, PRPP, or SPP as a 2019 
repayment under the HBP or the LLP. If you designate less than the minimum 
required repayment amount for 2019, report the difference on line 12900 of 
your return. 
 
If you are not required to make a repayment under the HBP or the LLP, enter 
"0" on line 9 and continue on line 10. 
 
Do not include on lines 7 and 8: 
 
- any amount you deducted or designated on your 2018 return as a repayment or 
that was refunded to you 
 
- any contributions or transfers you will be including on line 14 or line 15 
in Part C of this schedule 
 
Line 6: Enter the amount from line 5 on the previous page. ^
 
Line 7 and line 24600: Contribution designated as a repayment under the HBP ^
 
Line 8 and line 24620: Contribution designated as a repayment under the LLP ^
 
Line 9: Add lines 7 and 8. Total repayments under the HBP and the LLP = ^
 
Line 10: Line 6 minus line 9 Contributions available to deduct = ^
 
For more information on the LLP, see Guide RC4112, Lifelong Learning Plan 
(LLP). For more information on the HBP, go to canada.ca/home-buyers-plan. 
 
Part C - RRSP deduction 
 
Complete this part to calculate your RRSP deduction at line 20800 of your 
return. 
 
Line 11: Enter your RRSP deduction limit for 2019 as shown on your latest 
notice of assessment or reassessment, or your T1028 statement for 2019. ^
 
Line 12: Enter your 2019 employer PRPP contributions (amount from line 20810 
from your return). ^
 
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 = ^
 
Line 14 and line 24640: Transfers (see "Line14 - Transfers" below) ^
 
Line 15: RRSP, PRPP, and SPP contributions you are deducting for 2019. This 
amount cannot be more than the lesser of: the amount on line 13 and the 
result of line 10 minus line 14. ^
 
Line 16: Add lines 14 and 15. = ^
 
Line 17 and line 20800: Enter the amount from line 10 or line 16, whichever 
is less. Also enter this amount on line 20800 of your return. RRSP deduction 
^
 
Line 14 – Transfers 
 
You may have reported income on line 11500, 12900, or 13000 of your 2019 
return. If you transferred certain types of this income to your RRSP, PRPP, 
and SPP on or before March 2, 2020, you can claim the same amount on line 14, 
as a transfer. Claiming the transfer ensures that your RRSP deduction limit 
is not reduced by that amount. 
 
For more information about amounts you can transfer, see Guide T4040. 
 
Note 
You may not have reported income you received in a previous year on your 
return for that year. If reported, that income may give you more room to 
contribute to an RRSP, PRPP, or SPP in later years. To ensure your RRSP 
deduction limit is up to date and maximized, file your return for that year 
and report the income. 
 
 
5000-S7 (Page 4 of 4) 
 
Part D - Unused contributions available to carry forward 
 
Line 18: Line 10 from the previous page minus line 17 from the previous page 
Your unused contributions available to carry forward to a future year = ^
 
This amount is available to carry forward to future years and it will be 
shown on your 2019 notice of assessment. 
 
Part E - 2019 withdrawals under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Complete this section, if you withdrew funds from your RRSP under the HBP 
and/or the LLP in 2019. 
 
Line 19 and line 24700: HBP: enter the amount from box 27 of all your 2019 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 20 and box 25900: Tick this box if the address shown on page 1 of your 
return is the same as the address of the home you purchased under the HBP. ^
 
Line 21 and line 26300: LLP: enter the amount from box 25 of all your 2019 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 22 and box 26400: Tick this box to designate your spouse or common-law 
partner as the student you withdrew the funds for under the LLP. You can only 
make this designation on the return for the year you make your first 
withdrawal under the LLP. If you do not tick the box, you will be considered 
to be the student for LLP purposes. ^
 
For more information on the LLP, see Guide RC4112, Lifelong Learning Plan 
(LLP). 
 
For more information on the HBP, go to canada.ca/home-buyers-plan. 
 
Part F - 2019 contributions to an amateur athlete trust 
 
Complete this section to report qualifying performance income (generally 
endorsement income, prize money, or income from public appearances received 
by an amateur athlete) contributed in 2019 to an amateur athlete trust. This 
income qualifies as earned income when calculating the RRSP deduction limit 
of the trust's beneficiary. 
 
Line 23 and line 26700: Enter the amount of income that was contributed to an 
amateur athlete trust in 2019. ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
