5000-S9 (Front) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2019 
 
Schedule 9 
 
Donations and Gifts 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return to claim an amount on 
line 34900 of your return. 
 
For more information, see Pamphlet P113, Gifts and Income Tax. 
 
Eligible amount of charitable donations 
 
Include at lines 1 to 4 all the eligible amounts of donations you want to 
claim this year. This includes the eligible amount of donations that either 
you or your spouse or common-law partner made in 2019 or in any of the 
previous 5 years that have not been claimed before. Remember, you may have 
charitable donations shown on your T4 and T4A slips. If you are claiming 
gifts made to a charity in the United States, see Pamphlet P113. 
 
Line 1: Donations made to registered charities, registered Canadian amateur 
athletic associations, and registered Canadian low-cost housing corporations 
for the aged ^
 
Line 2 and line 32900: Donations made to government bodies (government of 
Canada, a province, a territory, registered municipalities in Canada, or 
registered municipal or public bodies performing a function of government in 
Canada) ^
 
Line 3 and line 33300: Donations made to registered universities outside 
Canada ^
 
Line 4 and line 33400: Donations made to the United Nations, its agencies, 
and certain registered foreign charitable organizations ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 to 4. Total eligible amount of charitable donations = ^
 
Donations limit 
 
Line 7: Enter your net income from line 23600 of your return. Line 6 ^
multiplied by 75% = ^
 
If line 5 is less than line 7, enter the amount from line 5 on line 13 below 
and continue on line 14. Otherwise, complete lines 8 to 12, before continuing 
on line 13. 
 
Line 8 and line 33700: Gifts of depreciable property (from Chart 2 in 
Pamphlet P113) ^
 
Line 9 and line 33900: Gifts of capital property (from Chart 1 in Pamphlet 
P113) ^
 
Line 10: Add lines 8 and 9. = ^
Line 11: multiplied by 25% = ^
 
Line 12: Enter the total of lines 7 and 11 or the amount on line 23600 of 
your return, whichever is less. Total donations limit = ^
 
Donations and gifts 
 
Line 13 and line 34000: Allowable charitable donations. If you did not 
complete lines 8 to 12, enter the amount from line 5. Otherwise, enter the 
amount from line 5 or line 12, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 14 and line 34200: Eligible amount of cultural and ecological gifts (See 
Pamphlet P113.) ^
 
Line 15: Add lines 13 and 14. = ^
 
Line 16: Enter $200 or the amount from line 15, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 17: Line 15 minus line 16. = ^
 
Continue on the next page. 
 
 
5000-S9 (Back) 
 
If your taxable income is less than $210,371, enter "0" on line 26 and 
continue on line 28. Otherwise, complete lines 18 to 27, before continuing on 
line 28. 
 
Line 18: Enter the amount from line 17 from the previous page. ^
 
Line 19 and line 34210: Total of your donations made before 2016 included on 
lines 5 and 14, to a maximum of the amount on line 15 from the previous page. 
^
 
Line 20: Line 18 minus line 19 (if negative, show it in brackets) = ^
 
Line 21: Enter the amount from line 16 or line 19, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 22: Add lines 20 and 21. = ^
 
Line 23: Enter your taxable income from line 26000 of your return. ^
 
Line 24: Income threshold 210,371.00 
 
Line 25: Line 23 minus line 24 (if negative enter "0") = ^
 
Line 27: If you did not complete lines 18 to 25, enter "0". Otherwise, enter 
the amount from line 22 or line 25, whichever is less. Line 26 ^
multiplied by 33% = ^
 
Line 29: If you did not complete lines 18 to 27, enter the amount from line 
17. Otherwise, enter the result of line 17 minus line 26. Line 28 ^
multiplied by 29% = ^
 
Line 31: Enter the amount from line 16. Line 30 ^
multiplied by 15% = ^
 
Line 32: Add lines 27, 29, and 31. Enter this amount on line 34900 of your 
return. Donations and Gifts = ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
