5000-S7 (Front) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2016 
 
Schedule 7 
 
RRSP and PRPP Unused Contributions, Transfers, and HBP or LLP Activities 
 
A pooled registered pension plan (PRPP) is an accessible retirement savings 
option for individuals, including self-employed individuals. For more 
information, go to cra.gc.ca/tx/ndvdls/tpcs/prpp-rpac/menu-eng.html. 
 
Do not include PRPP contributions made by your employer in the calculation of 
your contributions in Part A of this schedule. The PRPP "employer 
contribution amount" from your PRPP receipt must be reported on line 205 of 
your return and on line 12 in Part C of this schedule. 
 
If you earned income that is tax-exempt (for example, tax-exempt income 
earned by an Indian as defined by the Indian Act) and would like to 
contribute to a PRPP based on that income, complete Form RC383, Tax-exempt 
Earned Income Information for a Pooled Registered Pension Plan. The CRA will 
calculate your exempt PRPP room based on this income. Do not report 
contributions made from exempt earnings on this schedule. 
 
Specified Pension Plan (SPP) contributions generally have the same rules as 
registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) contributions and should be 
included on this schedule. Currently the Saskatchewan Pension Plan is the 
only arrangement prescribed to be a specified pension plan. For more 
information about the Saskatchewan Pension Plan, visit saskpension.com. 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return only when one or more of 
the following situations apply: 
 
- You will not be deducting on your return for 2016 all the unused RRSP/PRPP 
contributions, amount (B) of "Your 2016 RRSP/PRPP Deduction Limit Statement" 
shown on your latest notice of assessment, notice of reassessment, or T1028, 
Your RRSP/PRPP Information for 2016. 
 
- You will not be deducting on your return for 2016 all the RRSP 
contributions and your PRPP contributions made from March 1, 2016, to March 
1, 2017. 
 
- You have transferred to your RRSP or PRPP certain amounts you included in 
your income. 
 
- You are designating contributions made to your RRSP, your PRPP, or your SPP 
as a 2016 repayment under the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) or the Lifelong 
Learning Plan (LLP). 
 
- You withdrew funds from your RRSP in 2016 under the HBP or the LLP. (You 
cannot withdraw funds from your PRPP or SPP under the HBP or the LLP.) 
 
- You will be the beneficiary of income that was contributed to an amateur 
athlete trust in 2016 and you want that income to be used in calculating your 
RRSP/PRPP contribution limit. 
 
If none of these situations apply to you, do not complete this schedule, and 
enter your total RRSP and PRPP contributions on line 208 of your return. For 
more information, see line 208 in the guide. 
 
Part A - Contributions 
 
Line 1: Unused RRSP/PRPP contributions: amount (B) of "Your 2016 RRSP/PRPP 
Deduction Limit Statement" shown on your latest notice of assessment, notice 
of reassessment, or T1028, Your RRSP/PRPP Information for 2016 ^
 
Contributions* made to your or your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP and 
your PRPP 
 
* Include your transfers and contributions that you are designating as a 
repayment under the HBP or the LLP. See line 208 in the guide for the list of 
contributions to exclude. 
 
Line 2: Enter the RRSP and your PRPP contributions made from March 1, 2016, 
to December 31, 2016 (attach all your receipts). ^
 
Line 3: Enter the RRSP and your PRPP contributions made from January 1, 2017, 
to March 1, 2017 (attach all your receipts). ^
 
Line 4 and line 245: Add lines 2 and 3. = ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 and 4. Total RRSP/PRPP contributions = ^
 
Part B - Repayments under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Specify the contributions made from January 1, 2016, to March 1, 2017 that 
you are designating as your repayments under the HBP and the LLP for 2016. 
 
Do not include: 
 
- any amount you deducted or designated as a repayment on your 2015 return or 
that was refunded to you; or 
 
- any contributions or transfers that you will be including on line 14 or 
line 15 in Part C on the next page. 
 
Line 6 and line 246: Repayment under the HBP ^
Line 7 and line 262: Repayment under the LLP ^
Line 8: Add lines 6 and 7. = ^
 
Line 9: Line 5 minus line 8 RRSP/PRPP contributions available to deduct = ^
Enter this amount on line 10 on the next page. 
 
Continue on the next page 
 
 
5000-S7 (Back) 
 
Part C - RRSP/PRPP deduction 
 
Line 10: Enter the RRSP/PRPP contributions available to deduct from line 9 on 
the previous page. ^
 
Line 11: RRSP/PRPP deduction limit for 2016: amount (A) of "Your 2016 
RRSP/PRPP Deduction Limit Statement" on your latest notice of assessment, 
notice of reassessment, or T1028, Your RRSP/PRPP Information for 2016 ^
 
Line 12: Enter your 2016 employer PRPP contributions (amount from line 205 of 
your return). ^
 
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 = ^
 
Line 14: RRSP/PRPP contributions you are deducting for 2016 (this amount 
cannot exceed the amount on line 10, excluding transfers, or the amount on 
line 13 whichever is less) ^
 
Line 15 and line 240: Transfers (see "Line 15 - Transfers" at line 208 in the 
guide) ^
 
Line 16: Add lines 14 and 15. = ^
 
Line 17 and line 208: Enter the amount from line 10 or line 16, whichever is 
less. RRSP/PRPP deduction ^
Also enter this amount on line 208 of your return. 
 
Part D - RRSP/PRPP unused contributions available to carry forward 
 
Line 18: Line 10 minus line 17 Your unused RRSP/PRPP contributions available 
to carry forward to a future year = ^
 
We will show the amount on line 18 as "Your Available contribution room for 
2017" on your 2016 notice of assessment. 
 
Part E - 2016 withdrawals under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Line 19 and line 247: HBP: enter the amount from box 27 of all your 2016 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 20 and box 259: Tick this box if the address shown on page 1 of your 
return is the same as the address of the home you purchased under the HBP. ^
 
Line 21 and line 263: LLP: enter the amount from box 25 of all your 2016 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 22 and box 264: Tick this box to designate your spouse or common-law 
partner as the student for whom the funds were withdrawn under the LLP. ^
 
Part F - 2016 contributions to an amateur athlete trust 
 
Line 23 and line 267: Enter the amount of income that was contributed to an 
amateur athlete trust in 2016. ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
