5000-S5 (Front) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2020 
 
Schedule 5 
 
Amounts for Spouse or Common-Law Partner and Dependants 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return to claim an amount on 
line 30300, 30400, 30425, or 30450 of your return. For more information, see 
lines 30300 and 30400 in the Federal Income Tax and Benefit Guide, and lines 
30425 and 30450 on this form. 
 
Line 30300 - Spouse or common-law partner amount 
 
Did your marital status change to other than married or common-law in 2020? 
 
Box 55220: If yes, tick this box (enter yes) ^
and enter the date of the change. (Month/Day) ^
 
Line 1: Your basic personal amount (line 30000 of your return) ^
 
Line 2 and line 51090: If you are entitled to the Canada caregiver amount for 
your spouse or common-law partner, enter $2,273. (See the "Canada caregiver 
amount" in Step 5 of the guide and at line 30425 below.) ^
 
Line 3: Add lines 1 and 2. = ^
 
Line 4: Spouse's or common-law partner's net income from page 1 of your 
return ^
 
Line 5: Line 3 minus line 4 (if negative, enter "0"). Enter this amount on 
line 30300 of your return. = ^
 
Line 30400 - Amount for an eligible dependant 
 
Did your marital status change to married or common-law in 2020? 
 
Box 55290: If yes, tick this box (enter yes) ^
and enter the date of the change. (Month/Day) ^
 
Provide the requested information and complete the following calculation for 
this dependant. 
 
First and last name: ^
Address: ^
Year of birth ^
Relationship to you ^
Is this dependant physically or mentally infirm? Yes or No ^
 
Line 1: Your basic personal amount (line 30000 of your return) ^
 
Line 2 and line 51100: If you are entitled to the Canada caregiver amount for 
your dependant (other than your infirm child under 18 years of age), enter 
$2,273. (See "Canada caregiver amount" in Step 5 of the guide, read the note 
below, and see line 30425 below.) ^
 
Line 3: Add lines 1 and 2. = ^
 
Line 4 and line 51106: Dependant's net income (line 23600 of their return) ^
 
Line 5: Line 3 minus line 4 (if negative, enter "0"). Enter this amount on 
line 30400 of your return. = ^
 
Note: 
If the dependant is your or your spouse's or common-law partner's infirm 
child under 18 years of age, you must claim the Canada caregiver amount on 
line 30500, not on line 51100. 
 
Line 30425 - Canada caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner, or 
your eligible dependant age 18 or older 
 
If you can claim an amount for your spouse or common-law partner on line 
30300 of your return or for an eligible dependant 18 years of age or older on 
line 30400 of your return, you may be able to claim an amount on line 30425 
of your return. However, you must first claim the amount of $2,273 in 
calculating either the amount on line 30300 or the amount on line 30400, 
whichever applies. 
 
To claim an amount on line 30425 of your return, you must first calculate 
your spouse’s, common-law partner’s, or eligible dependant’s net income (line 
23600 of their return or the amount it would be if they filed a return). Then 
complete the calculation above for either line 30300 or line 30400, whichever 
applies. Finally, complete the calculation for line 30425 on the next page. 
 
If you cannot claim an amount on line 30425 of your return for an eligible 
dependant 18 years of age or older because you have a spouse or common-law 
partner, you still may be able to claim the Canada caregiver amount for other 
infirm dependants age 18 or older on line 30450 of your return. See line 
30450 on the next page. 
 
Only one claim can be made for this amount. You cannot split this amount with 
another person. 
 
 
5000-S5 (Back) 
 
Line 30425 - Canada caregiver amount for spouse or common-law partner, or 
your eligible dependant age 18 or older (continued) 
 
Complete this calculation only if you entered $2,273 on line 51090 or line 
51100 of this schedule for a person whose net income is between $7,295 and 
$24,361. 
 
Line 1: Base amount 24,361.00 
 
Line 2: Net income of this person (line 23600 of their return) ^
 
Line 3: Line 1 minus line 2 (if negative, enter "0") (maximum $7,276) = ^
 
Line 4: If you claimed this person on line 30300 or 30400 of your return, 
enter the amount you claimed. ^
 
Line 5: Allowable amount for this person: line 3 minus line 4 (if negative, 
enter "0") Enter this amount on line 30425 of your return. = ^
 
Line 30450 - Canada caregiver amount for other infirm dependants age 18 or 
older 
 
(Attach a separate sheet if you need more space) 
 
You can claim an amount for each dependent who meets all the following 
conditions. They: 
 
- were dependent on you because of an impairment in physical or mental 
functions 
 
- were 18 years of age or older 
 
- were your or your spouse’s or common-law partner’s child, grandchild, 
parent, grandparent, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew 
 
- were a resident of Canada at any time in the year (but not a person who was 
only visiting you) 
 
- had a net income (line 23600 of their return or the amount it would be if 
they filed a return) of less than $24,361 
 
You cannot claim an amount on line 30450 of your return for dependants who do 
not have an impairment in physical or mental functions, including a parent or 
grandparent. A parent includes someone on whom you were completely dependent 
and who had custody and control of you when you were under 19 years of age. 
Similarly, a child can include someone older than you who has become 
completely dependent on you for support and over whom you have custody and 
control. 
 
If anyone (including you) is claiming an amount on line 30300 or on line 
30400 of the return for the dependant, you cannot claim an amount on line 
30450 of the return for that dependant. 
 
If you had to make support payments for a child, you cannot claim an amount 
on line 30450 of your return for that child. However, if you were separated 
from your spouse or common-law partner for only part of 2020 because of a 
breakdown in your relationship, you may be able to claim an amount for that 
child on line 30450 of your return if you do not claim any support amounts 
paid to your spouse or common-law partner on line 22000 of your return. You 
can claim whichever is better for you. 
 
The Canada Revenue Agency may ask for a signed statement from a medical 
practitioner indicating that the person is dependent on others because of 
this impairment in physical or mental functions, as well as the nature of the 
impairment, when it began, and how long it is expected to last. 
 
Note 
If you and another person support the same dependant, you can split the claim 
for that dependant. However, the total amount of your claim and the other 
person’s claim cannot be more than the maximum amount allowed for that 
dependant. 
 
Provide the requested information and complete the following calculation for 
each dependant. 
 
First and last name: ^
Address: ^
Year of birth: ^
Relationship to you ^
 
Line 1: Base amount 24,361.00 
 
Line 2: Infirm dependant's net income (line 23600 of their return) ^
 
Line 3: Allowable amount for this dependant: line 1 minus line 2 (if 
negative, enter "0") (maximum $7,276) = ^
 
Enter on line 30450 of your return the total amount you are claiming for all 
dependants. 
 
Box 51120: Enter the total number of dependants for whom you are claiming an 
amount at line 30450 of your return. ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.

 




