5000-S13 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2016 
 
Schedule 13 
 
Employment Insurance Premiums on Self-Employment and Other Eligible Earnings 
 
For more information, see line 317 in the guide. 
 
Complete this schedule to calculate the amount of your employment insurance 
(EI) premiums on self-employment and other eligible earnings only if you have 
entered into an agreement with the Canada Employment Insurance Commission 
through Service Canada to participate in the EI program for access to EI 
special benefits. 
 
Attach a copy of this schedule to your return. 
 
Net self-employment income 
 
Line 1: Enter the total amounts from line 122 and lines 135 to 143 of your 
return. If you have self-employment income for which you received a T4 slip, 
with EI premiums shown in box 18, do not include any net income (or loss) you 
reported on lines 135 to 143 from that T4 slip (see note (a) below). (if 
negative, enter "0") ^
 
Line 2 and line 5493: If you are employed by a corporation but not eligible 
to participate in the EI program as an employee because you control more than 
40% of the voting shares of that corporation, enter the amount from box 14 of 
all your T4 slips from that corporation unless note (b) below applies. ^
 
Line 3 and line 5494: If you are a registered Indian, or person entitled to 
be registered under the Indian Act, and you earned tax-exempt, self-
employment income on a reserve in Canada, enter your total tax-exempt self-
employment income. ^
 
Line 4: Add lines 1, 2, and 3. = ^
 
If your total EI premiums from box 18 and box 55 of all your T4 slips is 
$955.04 or more, you do not have to pay any premiums on your self-employment 
and other eligible earnings. Enter "0" on line 10 and attach a copy of this 
schedule to your return. 
 
Line 5: Maximum insurable earnings 50,800.00 
 
Total EI insurable earnings 
 
Line 6 and line 5478: Enter the total amount from box 24 of all your T4 
slips. If box 24 is blank, use the amount from box 14, unless box 28 
indicates that the T4 earnings are EI-exempt. If you have employment income 
for which you did not get a T4 slip, also enter that amount. ^
 
Line 7: Line 5 minus line 6 (if negative, enter "0") = ^
 
Line 8: Enter the amount from line 4 or line 7, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 9: EI premium rate 1.88% 
 
EI premiums payable on self-employment and other eligible earnings 
Line 10: Multiply line 8 by line 9. (maximum $955.04) = ^
 
Enter the amount from line 10 on line 317 of your Schedule 1 and on line 430 
of your return. 
 
(a) This may be the case if you are in one of the following situations: 
 
- you are a barber, a hairdresser, a taxi driver, or a driver of another 
passenger-carrying vehicle and you are not hired as an employee; 
 
- you received income through a placement agency and you are not hired as an 
employee; or 
 
- you are a self-employed fisher. 
 
(b) Box 14 of your T4 slip may include certain amounts that are not insurable 
earnings, such as: 
 
- non-cash benefits (other than the value of board and lodging); 
 
- contributions made by your employer to your employee group RRSP where 
access to the funds is restricted; 
 
- certain amounts paid by your employer to you to cover the waiting period or 
to increase the maternity, parental, or compassionate care benefits; and 
 
- top-up amounts paid by your employer to you in addition to worker's 
compensation benefits. 
 
If you received any of these amounts, visit cra.gc.ca or contact us to 
determine the amount to exclude from line 2. 
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
