5000-S7 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2012 
 
Schedule 7 
 
RRSP Unused Contributions, Transfers, and HBP or LLP Activities 
 
Generally, Saskatchewan Pension Plan (SPP) contributions are subject to the 
same rules as registered retirement savings plan (RRSP) contributions and 
should be included on this schedule. For more information about the SPP, 
visit www.saskpension.com. 
 
Complete this schedule, and attach it to your return only when one or more of 
the following situations applies: 
 
- You will not be deducting on your return for 2012 all of the unused RRSP 
contributions, amount (B) of "Your 2012 RRSP Deduction Limit Statement" shown 
on your latest notice of assessment, notice of reassessment, or T1028, Your 
RRSP Information for 2012. 
 
- You will not be deducting on your return for 2012 all of the RRSP 
contributions you made from March 1, 2012, to March 1, 2013. 
 
- You have transferred to your RRSP certain amounts you included in your 
income. 
 
- You are designating contributions made to your RRSP as a 2012 repayment 
under the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) or the Lifelong Learning Plan (LLP). 
 
- You withdrew funds from your RRSP in 2012 under the HBP or the LLP.(You 
cannot withdraw funds from your Saskatchewan Pension Plan (SPP) under the HBP 
or the LLP.) 
 
If none of these situations apply to you, do not complete this schedule, and 
only enter your total RRSP contributions on line 208 of your return. For more 
information, see line 208 in the guide. 
 
PART A - Contributions 
 
Line 1: Unused RRSP contributions: amount (B) of "Your 2012 RRSP Deduction 
Limit Statement" shown on your latest notice of assessment, notice of 
reassessment, or T1028, Your RRSP Information for 2012 ^
 
Total contributions * made to your RRSP or your spouse's or common-law 
partner's RRSP from: 
 
Line 2: March 1, 2012, to December 31, 2012 (attach all of your receipts) ^
 
Line 3: January 1, 2013, to March 1, 2013 (attach all of your receipts) ^
 
Line 4 and line 245: Add lines 2 and 3. = ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 and 4 Total RRSP contributions = ^
 
* Include your transfers and contributions that you are designating as a 
repayment under the HBP or the LLP. See line 208 in the guide for the list of 
contributions to exclude. 
 
PART B - Repayments under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Specify the contributions made to your RRSP from January 1, 2012, to March 1, 
2013, that you are designating as your repayments under the HBP and the LLP 
for 2012. Do not include an amount you deducted or designated as a repayment 
on your 2011 return or that was refunded to you. Also, do not include any 
contributions or transfers that you will be including on line 10 or 11 below. 
 
Line 6 and line 246: Repayment under the HBP ^
 
Line 7 and line 262: Repayment under the LLP ^
 
Line 8: Add lines 6 and 7. = ^
 
PART C - RRSP deduction 
 
Line 9: Line 5 minus line 8 RRSP contributions available to deduct = ^
 
Line 10: RRSP contributions you are deducting for 2012 (this amount cannot 
exceed the lesser of the amount on line 9, excluding transfers, and your RRSP 
deduction limit for 2012, shown at amount (A) of "Your 2012 RRSP Deduction 
Limit Statement" on your latest notice of assessment, notice of reassessment, 
or T1028, Your RRSP Information for 2012) ^
 
Line 11 and line 240: Transfers (see "Line 11 - Transfers" at line 208 in the 
guide) ^
 
Line 12: Add lines 10 and 11. ^
 
Line 13 and line 208: Enter the amount from line 9 or line 12, whichever is 
less. 2012 RRSP deduction ^
Also enter this amount on line 208 of your return. ^
 
PART D - RRSP unused contributions available to carry forward 
 
Line 14: Line 9 minus line 13 Your unused RRSP contributions available to 
carry forward to a future year = ^
 
We will show the amount on line 14 as amount (B) of "Your 2013 RRSP Deduction 
Limit Statement" on your 2012 notice of assessment. 
 
PART E - 2012 withdrawals under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Line 15 and line 247: HBP: enter the amount from box 27 of all your 2012 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Line 16 and Box 259: Tick this box if the address shown on page 1 of your 
return is the same as the address of the home you purchased under the HBP. ^
 
Line 17 and line 263: LLP: enter the amount from box 25 of all your 2012 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Line 18 and Box 264: Tick this box to designate your spouse or common-law 
partner as the student for whom the funds were withdrawn under the LLP. ^
 
Privacy Act, Personal Information Bank number CRA PPU 005
