5000-S8 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2013 
 
Schedule 8 
 
CPP Contributions on Self-Employment and Other Earnings 
 
For more information, see line 222 in the guide. 
 
Complete this schedule to calculate the amount of your Canada Pension Plan 
(CPP) contributions if: 
 
- you reported self-employment income on lines 135 to 143 of your return; 
 
- you reported business or professional income from a partnership on line 122 
of your return; or 
 
- you made an election on Form CPT20 to pay additional CPP contributions on 
other earnings. 
 
Attach a copy of this schedule to your return. 
 
Do not use this form if any of your T4 slips have Quebec Pension Plan (QPP) 
contributions. Instead complete Form RC381, Inter-provincial Calculation for 
CPP and QPP Contributions and Overpayments for 2013. 
 
Line 1: Pensionable net self-employment earnings (amounts from line 122 and 
lines 135 to 143 of your return) ^
 
Line 2 and line 373: Employment earnings not shown on a T4 slip on which you 
elect to pay additional CPP contributions (attach Form CPT20) ^
 
Line 3: Add lines 1 and 2 (if negative, enter "0"). = ^
 
Line 4: Enter the amount from box 26 of all T4 slips (this amount already 
includes the amount entered on line 12 of Form CPT20, if applicable). ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 3 and 4. Total pensionable earnings (maximum $51,100) = ^
 
Line 6: Basic exemption 3,500.00 
 
Line 7: Line 5 minus line 6 (if negative, enter "0") Earnings subject to 
contribution = ^
 
Line 8: Multiply the amount on line 7 by 9.9%. ^
 
Line 9: Contributions through employment (from box 16 and box 17 of all T4 
slips) ^
multiplied by 2 = ^
 
CPP contributions payable on self-employment and other earnings: 
Line 10: Line 8 minus line 9 (if negative, enter "0"). Enter this amount on 
line 421 of your return. = ^
 
Deduction and tax credit for CPP contributions on self-employment and other 
earnings: 
Line 11: Amount from line 10 ^
multiplied by 50% = ^
 
Enter the amount from line 11 on line 222 of your return and on line 310 of 
Schedule 1. 
 
Election to stop contributing to the Canada Pension Plan or revocation of a 
prior election 
 
If, in 2013, you were 60 to 70 years of age, you received a CPP or QPP 
retirement pension, and you had employment and/or self-employment income, you 
were considered a CPP working beneficiary and you were required to make CPP 
contributions. However, if you were at least 65 years of age but under 70, 
you can elect to stop paying CPP contributions. 
 
If you have employment income for 2013 and elected in 2013 to stop paying CPP 
contributions or revoked in 2013 an election made in a prior year, you should 
have already completed and submitted Form CPT30, Election to Stop 
Contributing to the Canada Pension Plan, or Revocation of a Prior Election, 
to us and your employer(s). 
 
If you had only self-employment income for 2013 and elect in 2013 to stop 
paying CPP contributions on your self-employment earnings, enter the month in 
2013 for which you choose to start this election in box 372 below. The date 
cannot be earlier than the month you turn 65 and you are receiving a CPP or 
QPP retirement pension. For example, if you turn 65 in June, you can choose 
any month between June and December, inclusively. If you choose the month of 
June, enter 06 in box 372 because June is the sixth month of the year. If, in 
2013 you are revoking an election made in a prior year on contributions on 
self-employment earnings, enter the month in 2013 for which you choose to 
revoke this election in box 374 below. Your election remains valid until you 
revoke it or you turn 70. If you start receiving employment income (other 
than employment income earned in Quebec) in a future year, you will have to 
complete Form CPT30 in that year for your election to remain valid. 
 
If you had both employment income and self-employment income in 2013 and 
wanted to elect in 2013 to stop paying CPP contributions in 2013, or to 
revoke in 2013 an election made in a prior year, you should have completed 
Form CPT30 in 2013. An election filed using Form CPT30 applies to all income 
from pensionable earnings, including self-employment earnings, as of the 
first day of the month following the date you gave this form to your 
employer. However, if you want to elect to stop paying CPP contributions on 
your self-employment earnings on an earlier date in 2013, enter the month you 
want to stop contributing in box 372 below or, if you want to revoke in 2013 
an election made in a prior year, enter the month you want to stop in box 374 
below. 
 
To be valid, an election or revocation that begins in 2013 must be filed on 
or before June 15, 2015. 
 
Box 372: I elect to stop contributing to the Canada Pension Plan on my self-
employment earnings on the first day of the month that I entered in box 372. 
Month ^
 
Box 374: I want to revoke an election made in a prior year to stop 
contributing to the Canada Pension Plan on my self-employment earnings and 
resume contributing on the first day of the month that I entered in box 374. 
Month ^
 
Privacy Act, Personal Information Bank number CRA PPU 005
