5000-S11 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2017 
 
Schedule 11 
 
Tuition, Education, and Textbook Amounts 
 
For more information, see line 323 in the guide. 
 
Only the student must complete this schedule and attach it to his or her 
return. Use your official tuition tax receipt or completed form T2202A, 
TL11A, TL11B, and/or TL11C slips to complete this schedule to: 
 
- determine your federal tuition, education, and textbook amounts; 
 
- determine the federal tuition amount available to transfer to a designated 
individual; and 
 
- determine the unused federal amount, if any, available for you to carry 
forward to a future year. 
 
Tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed by the student for 2017 
 
Line 1: Unused federal tuition, education, and textbook amount from your 2016 
notice of assessment or notice of reassessment ^
 
Line 2 and line 320: Eligible tuition fees paid for 2017, from your tuition 
tax receipt or designated form as noted above. If you paid $100 or less in 
tuition to an institution, see line 323 in the guide. 
 
Line 3: Add line 1 and 2. Total available tuition, education, and textbook 
amounts for 2017. = ^
 
Line 4: Enter the amount of your taxable income from line 260 of your return 
if it is $45,916 or less. If your taxable income is more than $45,916, enter 
instead the result of the following calculation: amount from line 44 of your 
Schedule 1 divided by 15%. ^
 
Line 5: Total of lines 1 to 21 of your Schedule 1 ^
 
Line 6: Line 4 minus line 5 (if negative, enter "0"). = ^
 
Line 7: Unused tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed for 2017 
Amount from line 1 or line 6, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 8: Line 6 minus line 7. = ^
 
Line 9: 2017 tuition amount claimed for 2017. Enter the amount from line 2 or 
line 8, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 10: Add line 7 and 9. Total tuition, education, and textbook amounts 
claimed by the student for 2017. = ^
Enter this amount on line 323 of Schedule 1. 
 
2017 enrolment information 
 
The following additional information is required for the administration of 
federal programs such as the working income tax benefit, scholarship 
exemption, life long learning plan, and various provincial/territorial 
programs. 
 
Box 345: Tick this box (enter yes) if you were eligible for the disability 
tax credit or you had, in the year, a mental or physical impairment and a 
doctor has certified that the effects of the impairment are such that you 
cannot reasonably be expected to be enrolled as a full-time student. ^
 
Box 325: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a part-time student, 
column B of forms T2202A, TL11A, TL11B, and TL11C. (maximum 12) ^ 
 
Box 328: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a full-time student, 
column C of forms T2202A, TL11A, TL11B, and TL11C. (maximum 12) ^
 
Transfer of carryforward of unused amount 
 
Line 11: Amount from line 3 ^
Line 12: Amount from line 10 ^
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 Total unused amount = ^
 
If you are transferring an amount to another individual, continue on line 14. 
Otherwise, enter the amount from line 13 on line 18. 
 
Line 14: Enter the amount from line 2. (maximum $5,000) ^
 
Line 15: Amount from line 9 ^
 
Line 16: Line 14 minus line 15 (if negative, enter "0") Maximum transferable 
= ^
 
You can transfer all or part of the amount on line 16 to your spouse or 
common-law partner, to his or her parent or grandparent, or to your parent or 
grandparent. To do this, you have to designate the individual and specify the 
federal amount that you are transferring to him or her on your Form T2202A, 
TL11A, TL11B, or TL11C. Enter the amount on line 17 below. 
 
Note: 
If your spouse or common-law partner is claiming an amount for you on line 
303 or line 326 of his or her Schedule 1, you cannot transfer an amount to 
your parent or grandparent or to your spouse's or common-law partner's parent 
or grandparent. 
 
Line 17 and line 327: Enter the amount you are transferring (cannot be more 
than line 16). Federal tuition amount transferred ^
 
Line 18: Line 13 minus line 17 Unused federal amount available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
The person claiming the transfer should not attach this schedule to his or 
her return. 
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
