5000-S7 (Front) 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2017 
 
Schedule 7 
 
RRSP and PRPP Unused Contributions, Transfers, and HBP or LLP Activities 
 
For more information, see line 208 in the guide. 
 
Complete this schedule and attach it to your return only when one or more of 
the following situations apply: 
 
Complete Parts A, B, C, and D, if: 
 
- You will be keeping, for future years, some or all of your unused RRSP and 
PRPP contributions previously reported and available to deduct for 2017 as 
shown on your latest notice of assessment or reassessment, or T1028, Your 
RRSP/PRPP Information for 2017. 
 
- You will be keeping, for future years, some or all of the RRSP, PRPP, and 
SPP contributions you made from March 2, 2017, to March 1, 2018. 
 
- You have transferred to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP certain amounts you 
included in your income in 2017. 
 
- You are designating contributions made to your own RRSP, PRPP, or SPP as a 
2017 repayment under the Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) or the Lifelong Learning 
Plan (LLP). 
 
Complete Part E, if: 
 
- You withdrew funds from your RRSP in 2017 under the HBP or the LLP. 
 
Complete Part F, if: 
 
- You will be the beneficiary of income that was contributed to an amateur 
athlete trust in 2017 and you want that income to be used in calculating your 
RRSP contribution limit. 
 
If none of the above situations apply to you, do not complete this schedule. 
Enter your total contributions made to your or your spouse's or common-law 
partner's RRSP and SPP, and your PRPP on line 208 of your return. 
 
Part A – Contributions 
 
Line 1: Unused RRSP/PRPP contributions previously reported and available to 
deduct for 2017 as shown on your latest notice of assessment or reassessment, 
or T1028, Your RRSP/PRPP Information for 2017. ^
 
Include on lines 2 and 3 below all contributions you made for the dates 
specified, even if you are not designating or deducting them on your return 
for 2017. ^
 
Include at lines 2 and 3: 
- Contributions made to your or your spouse's or common-law partner's RRSP 
and SPP, and your PRPP; 
 
- Amounts transferred to your own RRSP, PRPP, or SPP (also see line 14 in 
Part C of this schedule); and  
 
- Contributions that you are designating as a repayment under the HBP or the 
LLP (Part B below) 
 
For the list of contributions to exclude at lines 2 and 3, see line 208 in 
the guide.
 
Line 2: Enter the RRSP, SPP, and your PRPP contributions made from March 2, 
2017, to December 31, 2017 (attach all your receipts). ^
 
Line 3: Enter the RRSP, SPP, and your PRPP contributions made from January 1, 
2018, to March 1, 2018 (attach all your receipts). ^
 
Line 4 and line 245: Add lines 2 and 3 = ^
 
Line 5: Add lines 1 and 4. Total contributions = ^
 
Part B – Repayments under the HBP and the LLP 
 
If you withdrew funds from your RRSP under the HBP and/or the LLP before 2016 
you may have to make a repayment to your RRSP, PRPP, or SPP for 2017. Your 
2017 minimum required repayment is shown on your latest notice of assessment 
or reassessment, or your T1028 statement for 2017. 
 
Complete line 6 and/or line 7 if you are designating contributions made from 
January 1, 2017 to March 1, 2018 to your own RRSP, PRPP, or SPP as a 2017 
repayment under the HBP or the LLP. If you designate less than the minimum 
required amount for 2017, report the difference at line 129 of your return. 
If you are not required to make a repayment under the HBP or LLP, enter "0" 
at line 8 and continue at line 9. 
 
Do not include at lines 6 and 7: 
 
- any amount you deducted or designated as a repayment on your 2016 return or 
that was refunded to you; or  
 
- any contributions or transfers that you will be including on line 14 or 
line 15 in Part C on the next page. 
 
Line 6 and line 246: Contribution designated as a repayment under the HBP ^
 
Line 7 and line 262: Contribution designated as a repayment under the LLP ^
 
Line 8: Add lines 6 and 7. Total repayments under the HBP and the LLP = ^
 
Line 9: Line 5 minus line 8 Contributions available to deduct = ^
Enter this amount on line 10 on the next page. 
 
Continue on the next page 
 
 
5000-S7 (Back) 
 
Part C – RRSP/PRPP deduction 
 
Line 10: Enter the amount from line 9 on the previous page. ^
 
Line 11: RRSP/PRPP deduction limit for 2017 as shown on your latest notice of 
assessment or reassessment, or T1028, Your RRSP/PRPP Information for 2017. ^
 
Line 12: Enter your 2017 employer PRPP contributions (amount from line 205 of 
your return). ^
 
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 = ^
 
Line 14 and line 240: Transfers (see "Line 14 - Transfers" at line 208 in the 
guide) ^
 
Line 15: RRSP, PRPP, and SPP contributions you are deducting for 2017, this 
amount cannot exceed the lesser of the result of line 10 minus line 14, or 
the amount on line 13, whichever is less ^
 
Line 16: Add lines 14 and 15. = ^
 
Line 17 and line 208: Enter the amount from line 10 or line 16, whichever is 
less. Also enter this amount on line 208 of your return. RRSP/PRPP deduction 
^
 
Part D – Unused contributions available to carry forward 
 
Line 18: Line 10 minus line 17 Your unused contributions available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
This amount is available to carry forward to future years. This amount will 
be shown on your 2017 notice of assessment. 
 
Part E – 2017 withdrawals under the HBP and the LLP 
 
Complete this section, if you withdrew funds from your RRSP under the HBP 
and/or the LLP in 2017. 
 
Line 19 and line 247: HBP: enter the amount from box 27 of all your 2017 
T4RSP slips. ^
 
Box 20 and box 259: Tick this box (enter yes) if the address shown on page 1 
of your return is the same as the address of the home you purchased under the 
HBP. ^
 
Line 21 and line 263: LLP: enter the amount from box 25 of all your 2017 
T4RSP slips. ^ 
 
Box 22 and box 264: Tick this box (enter yes) to designate your spouse or 
common-law partner as the student for whom the funds were withdrawn under the 
LLP. If you do not tick the box, you will be considered to be the student for 
LLP purposes. ^
 
Part F – 2017 contributions to an amateur athlete trust
 
Complete this section to report qualifying performance income (generally 
endorsement income, prize money, or income from public appearances received 
by an amateur athlete) contributed in 2017 to an amateur athlete trust, since 
this income qualifies as earned income in calculating the RRSP deduction 
limit of the trust's beneficiary. 
 
Line 23 and line 267: Enter the amount of income that was contributed to an 
amateur athlete trust in 2017. ^
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
