5000-S11 
 
Protected B when completed 
 
T1-2018 
 
Schedule 11 
 
Federal Tuition, Education, and Textbook Amounts 
 
Only the student must complete this schedule and attach it to their return. 
The person claiming the transfer should not attach this schedule to their 
return. Use your completed designated forms (T2202A, TL11A, TL11B, and/or 
TL11C) or other official tuition tax receipts, to complete this schedule to 
determine: 
 
- your tuition, education, and textbook amounts 
- the tuition amount you can transfer to a designated individual 
- the unused amount, if any, you can carry forward to a future year 
 
For more information, see Guide P105, Students and Income Tax. 
 
Tuition, education, and textbook amounts claimed by the student for 2018 
 
Line 1: Unused federal tuition, education, and textbook amounts from your 
2017 notice of assessment or notice of reassessment. ^
 
Line 2 and line 320: Eligible tuition fees paid for 2018 from the forms noted 
above or your official tuition tax receipts. To qualify, the fees you paid to 
attend each institution must be more than $100. Also complete the 2018 
enrolment information below. ^
 
Line 3: Add lines 1 and 2. Total available tuition, education, and textbook 
amounts for 2018 = ^
 
Line 4: Enter the amount of your taxable income from line 260 of your return 
if it is $46,605 or less. Otherwise, complete Step B of Schedule 1 and enter 
the result of the following calculation: amount from line 43 of your Schedule 
1 divided by 15%. ^
 
Line 5: Total of lines 1 to 20 of your Schedule 1 ^
 
Line 6: Line 4 minus line 5 (if negative, enter "0"). = ^
 
Line 7: Unused tuition, education, and textbook amount you are claiming for 
2018. Amount from line 1 or line 6, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 8: Line 6 minus line 7. = ^
 
Line 9: 2018 tuition amount you are claiming for 2018. Enter the amount from 
line 2 or line 8, whichever is less. ^
 
Line 10: Add lines 7 and 9. Total tuition, education, and textbook amounts 
claimed by the student for 2018 = ^
Enter this amount on line 323 of Schedule 1. 
 
2018 enrolment information 
 
We need the following information to administer federal programs, such as the 
working income tax benefit, scholarship exemption, life long learning plan, 
and various provincial and territorial programs. 
 
Box 345: Tick this box if you were eligible for the disability tax credit or 
you had, in the year, a mental or physical impairment and a doctor has 
certified that you cannot reasonably be expected to be enrolled as a full-
time student because of the effects of your impairment. ^
 
Box 325: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a part-time student 
from column B of forms T2202A, TL11A, TL11B, and TL11C. (maximum 12) ^
 
Box 328: Enter the number of months you were enrolled as a full-time student 
from column C of forms T2202A, TL11A, TL11B, and TL11C. (maximum 12) ^
 
Transfer or carryforward of unused amount 
 
Complete this section if you are transferring a current-year amount or if you 
have an unused amount to carry forward to future years. 
 
Line 11: Amount from line 3 ^
 
Line 12: Amount from line 10 ^
 
Line 13: Line 11 minus line 12 Total unused amount = ^
 
If you are transferring an amount to another individual, continue on line 14. 
Otherwise, enter the amount from line 13 on line 18. 
 
Line 14: Enter the amount from line 2. (maximum $5,000) ^
 
Line 15: Amount from line 9 ^
 
Line 16: Line 14 minus line 15 (if negative, enter "0") Maximum transferable 
= ^
 
You can transfer all or part of the amount on line 16 to your spouse or 
common-law partner, to their parent or grandparent, or to your parent or 
grandparent. To do this, you have to designate the individual and specify the 
federal amount that you are transferring to them on your Form T2202A, TL11A, 
TL11B, or TL11C. Enter the amount on line 17 below. 
 
Note: 
If your spouse or common-law partner is claiming an amount for you on line 
303 or line 326 of their Schedule 1, you cannot transfer an amount to your 
parent or grandparent or to your spouse's or common-law partner's parent or 
grandparent. 
 
Line 17 and line 327: Enter the amount you are transferring (cannot be more 
than line 16). Federal tuition amount transferred ^
 
Line 18: Line 13 minus line 17 Unused federal amount available to carry 
forward to a future year = ^
 
Complete the provincial or territorial Schedule (S11) to calculate your 
provincial or territorial amounts. 
 
See the privacy notice on your return.
